# hello-world
First, Github. Then, the world.

June 25th, 2017 -- Inaugural journal entry

This is my introduction and journey into programming, thus far.

I'm a 24-year-old mechanical engineering graduate exploring the world of coding. Some years ago, I found that programming came very easily to me, not just out of intelligence but because I'm genuinely interested in it.

I took a course in Java programming in my second year of college, wherein I completed all of the exercises in the entire textbook, many times the workload of that introductory course, before we even got to the midterm. I was enthralled by the prospect of summoning and manipulating information from the ether, which was a reason I also did well in physics and moved on to a more employable engineering major afterward.

My foray into programming was through the textbook Java Programming by Joyce Farrell, whose exercise results, I will upload here on Github. The textbook as a whole may not be the best out there, but the exercises at the end of each chapter were phenomenal for my self-learning. Once I completed the textbook, I sought further knowledge, and the community I found was the Daily Programming Thread, /dpt/, over on 4chan's /g/ board. As you might expect, the culture was abrasive and cynical, but they pointed out many good avenues for information and practice. I went on to fill out much of my programming time on Project Euler before I went on to try out my very first library: the gaming library LibGDX.

LibGDX is very large and unintuitive for one who has no experience in working on top of other people's code. After a number of YouTube tutorials and experiments with the included demonstration files, I managed to make a client with a number of classic games like Snake, Pong, Breakout, a Galaga-esque shooter, and a mockup of the first level of Super Mario Brothers, all with working scenes, assets, sounds, menus, and the like. I had settled on LibGDX in the hopes of implementing my creations into a Web browser, but the backend for this proved I still had much left to learn if I wanted to implement Java applets onto the Web. This project along with a bullet hell shooter and an incomplete chemical reactions simulator wound up getting no further than my laptop along with a few webms I posted to /vg/'s /agdg/, or Amateur Game Development General, threads. The folders were kept on a laptop that was stolen in my junior year of college, so those projects, which are my biggest, are most likely gone for good.

Before I lost the old laptop, I did work on some other projects like Minecraft mods and physics simulations, but my time spent programming eventually waned and dwindled down into nothing as I got into the rigorous parts of the engineering curriculum. There just wasn't time to be dedicating to these side projects when my coursework was all about the mechanics of materials, thermodynamics, kinematics, mechanical design, and other things that wouldn't benefit from me doing these projects. I didn't go into a CS or computer engineering major because with my level of interest, I figured I could do it without a degree anyway, and because my father, who was funding my education, always spoke down his nose when it came to CS and computer engineering for so much as having the option to work from home or, in his words, "to go to work all smelly and filthy without caring for your appearance, being kept elsewhere so no one has to deal with you until they want something."

Writing that down now, I realize that my father did me wrong. I don't fault him for it, though.

I'm pursuing programming again not out of any rebellion, but because I need a job. In skilled labor, the current situation is that I need experience to get an entry-level job, but I need an entry-level job to get any experience. There do exist truly entry-level jobs in my field, but I would have to move to get to them, which my parents are not agreeing to fund and which I can't get a loan for because I have no credit due to having no previous jobs to pay bills with. Even when I looked for co-ops in college, the situation was still competitive, with me falling to the back because I hadn't had any jobs. The cycle is viscious, and that's where Github comes in.

I had heard a lot about Github all the way back from my time on /g/, but the whole thing seemed confusing, so I kept out. It kept coming back as I looked into asset libraries and open-source code demonstrations, but at this point, I still just wanted to code and didn't care about other people seeing it. Now, after I've graduated and spent nearly two months without a job, here I am exploring ways to demonstrate my work, because the only other ways are trapped in those screwed up cycles that are keeping myself and my millennial contemporaries locked out of the job market. But I won't stay locked out.

From some colleagues I know who were in CS, I'm aware that the Web development job market is sorely undersaturated, to the point where employers regularly contact potential employees once a Web site has been published by that potential employee. It wasn't initially my plan to act on this. I looked for ways to learn Web development out of boredom and personal interest, and when I looked, I only found expensive textbooks and confusingly technical documentation. Google's botnet didn't let that go, though, and it pointed me along my current path. From the past two months of job board after job board, it knew that I was looking for a job. It just went on to connect the two, and here I am along that path. What a world.

Over the course of just the past five days, I've been doing the entire computer programming curriculum over on Khan Academy. I've completed the three full courses that introduced JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and their co-implementation in DOM. I have my first Web sites written up in HTML files on my computer, and I've been applying what I've learned into them as I go along in the courses. I'm creating this Github account for showcasing this work, because it won't get me employed if the employers can't see it.

It may seem a little cynical that I'm doing this to ultimately make some money, but I'm initially doing this just to have a purpose. This is something I can be passionate about, and if it means I can get out of these four walls and finally have some freedom, I'm going to pursue it like nothing else. In allusion to the modern adage, I don't want to be in my parents' basement. I'm trapped here, and I'm looking for ways to get out.

So thank you, Github. If this works, I owe you so much more than what I have.
